I was not meeting that afternoon with the White House
representatives and the Justice Department officials.
I wouldn't have made the trip that day.
There's little about in my mind, but that we were moving in
extrabally to the point where we would have to call on those
members someday.
I wouldn't have made the trip that day.
Now, Mr. Adam, when Mr. Stevens said in the face this
morning that the act of the day was going to be a little
long, Mr. Stevens said in the face this morning that the act
were the act of the Army alone.
So you consider a visit by you to the Senate in Durkton,
or constantly buying a White House assistant as an act of the
Army alone?
Well, a White House assistant couldn't have gone without me.
Could you have gone without him?
Well, there's some doubt in my mind as to whether or not I
would have had as ready access.
I was at that time, Senator Durkton has indicated that I
probably would have been able to get in on call.
And so what you do with that, it appears to me as though I
could have gone to see him alone.
I was pleased to have Mr. Morgan accompanying me for the very
reason that I was not personally acquainted with Senator Durkton.
Had you been personally acquainted with Senator McClellan?
As I state, I had met him once a few years ago, but he
wouldn't have remembered it.
But you went to see Senator McClellan alone, did you not?
Yes.
But the next day you couldn't go to see Senator Durkton alone.
You saw a high tide quote going to see Senator Durkton alone.
Well, why didn't you say, why didn't you bring along the White House
representative? This was an act of the Army alone.
Why did I bring along the White House representative?
Yes, sir. This was an act of the Army.
The question is that he said to me, I said, well, I don't know Senator Durkton.
And he said, well, I do well, go with you, or something.
Do you ever attempted to get an appointment with Senator Durkton and been
turned out? No, I haven't. His office is always open.
Is it not, sir? Are you or anybody else having business with him?
I'm quite sure it is. I've always found it for these, so I know that.
Now, the U.L. explanation is then that Mr. Morgan wanted to go along
to perform the introduction to that, right?
Well, I'm not sure that he wanted to go along.
He offered to go along because we weren't acquainted for the purposes of performing the introduction.
Does Mr. Morgan do anything to introduce you on the event?
Leave the room and let the Army alone carry out his business.
No, I'm at a occasion. I think Mr. Morgan, who knew Senator Durkton
much better than I, who had a long acquaintance with him.
I think Mr. Morgan did more of the talking than I did,
that he talked about the Army's problems.
Well, would you say this was an act of the Army alone when you brought us the senator
or company by White House representatives getting to his office
and the White House representatives even outporked you on the matter?
Would you still say this was an act of the Army alone?
Yes, it was an Army. It was a, it was a, it was a,
it was a children made on behalf of the Army by an official of the Army
who had the responsibility.
I, I was taken there by somebody who performed the introduction
and who could tell him the story, if he chose to or could remain quiet,
he happened to have spoken more than he remained quiet.
I think he did more than half of the talking on behalf of the two of us.
Do you think that's reconcilable with the statement that this was an act of the Army alone?
Yes, I think it is, sir.
Now, Mr. Adam following the events of these few days,
when he said that I didn't hear you.
Surely, sir, I just started to say following the events of these few days,
did you ever communicate directly or indirectly with any of the persons
who had attended that January 21st week,
or did they ever communicate with you directly or indirectly?
They respectfully, sir, I believe that the directive of the President
is precluded in the testing mass.
Well, Mr. Adam, an approach to listen here, we're trying to decide whether the Army
was acting alone or whether the fact is this was part of a plan instigated by other persons.
Now, how is my own?
You can make all the questioning you want, but this was not part of a plan
that was instigated by people outside of Pentagon.
Your interrogation can go any way it wants, if you will not develop that,
because that is not true.
Sir, I can't go any way I wanted to if I can't get any answers.
Now, my question to you was following this January 21st week,
at which a decision was made,
for a person to go to members of this committee and try to kill the investigation
of loyalty for which cleared money, coupling those requests with these stories
about myself and the staff members, following that meeting,
did you ever communicate again with the people who participated in that meeting
or did they ever communicate with you on this subject?
Mr. Chairman, I suggest the investigation to that question is,
not fuck with 50 him by the members of the Executive Department
who attended the meeting of January 21st, the question was whether or not
the Everett any time there has to be a consequence of January 21st.
And so, with any of the members of the Executive Department,
are the Justice Department who will attend on the day of January 21st?
Is that right, Mr. Colman?
Exactly.
Now, if he asks, later what was said,
then I will say your point with me well taken.
The question now is, did he ever not subject the subsequent to January 21st?
Consult with Mr. Sherman Adams, Mr. Rogers, Mr. Brown-Mail, Mr. Logs,
Mr. Marguerite.
I would suggest then that it be asked in respect to one gentleman at a time.
I, uh, there were all of us just so much.
I'm pretty much normal.
I'm trying to say it a little time, sir.
He's one gentleman at a time, I will.
All right, so I'll be glad to.
After the January 21st meeting,
did you ever communicate directly or indirectly with Mr. Sherman Adams on this subject?
Sir, I must ask for time because I believe that if he's the line of questioning
and violated of the fourth paragraph, the third paragraph of the sentence directly.
But I'll read his instructions.
I'm meeting, if there are only some of them,
just to say, I don't know whether you haven't before or not.
I do not have that.
I am meeting the line of the instruction boys.
There's just five samples right here.
So, you, I'm reading now from the President's directive.
You will instruct him, I'll wait a moment, sir.
I'll follow you.
I can get up here.
You will instruct employees of your department
that in all of their appearances before the subcommittee of the Senate Committee on governmental operations,
regarding the inquiry now before,
they are not to testify to any such conversation or communication,
or to produce any such document already productive.
This principle must be maintained regardless of who would do that,
and if it is not for others, I would rather say that by the marriage,
you know, reading, you specifically said conversation, yes sir.
And what else is there else?
Any such conversation on horror or communication?
Now Mr. Coleman is not asking about any conversation or communication.
He really asked this witness further and asked something subsequent to January 21st.
He ever consulted with any of the members of the executive department or the justice department
who were a person on January 21st.
That is the asked by conversation or communication,
then I would certainly advise the chair to room with you.
Well, if your person is this day's meat, this day's fault, not what must be it.
Well, if this in the mere fact of reading is a communication,
not necessarily we need a lot of people with whom we do not communicate well.
Yes, may it be.
Yes, that is just this that you would see them on the street.
Or as a theater or something of that sort.
I can see no object into it.
I don't think that's what Mr. Coleman is saying.
I think Mr. Works that each of us further and often met them had a conversation
or a communication, but he certainly could not ask what the conversation or the communication was.
Would you manage here, Mr. Welch, to lead up our whole project in that heard?
And this is one of another, Mr. Jenkins and I discussed with the attorney couple.
He had said that it is not in the public interest that any of their conversations or communication
for any document or reproductions concerning such advice be disclosed.
And it was our intended to see security orders go to the disclosure of what occurred,
not whether or not they were sent to meet.
Now whether or not they were sent to send, but we've made clear to us that there would be no discussions about the disclosure of what was said.
What was in the communication?
Mr. Chair, you can find the believes that Mr. Jenkins has interpreted the executive order in line with the understanding we received from the Attorney General.
Mr. Chairman.
Madam MacRoddy.
I hate to find myself on the side of Mr. Welch, but we have a name of Mr. Chairman that I think the Chair should avoid.
Knowing that these questions must be answered or must not be answered, I feel that from the theoretical time,
the touch must determine that we're entitled all of this information.
One of the reasons why I have agreed to assign my staff to testify and testify myself with your voice,
and the facility of this committee going into this question is just what the executive can deny to the Senate.
And what Mr. Jenkins has to counsel, but you say as Chairman can be quoted as a precedent in the future,
and we decide just how far the President can go in a state that the order.
May I say that I think of the witness asserts a type of mental privilege here?
I'm not a Secretary.
I'm a presidential privilege.
I think the Chair should allow him to do it rather than to get into this question which will take his months to decide.
May I say this?
I hope so, please.
May I finish with, Chair?
I think this is beautifully more important than anything we bring out of this hearing.
If the question is just what a President can do, and I disagree to the Chair and I'll go with the Truman Black Out Order of 1948,
I think that Eisenhower has been badly advised.
I think he's been extremely busy and matters far more important than this.
I don't think we should, however, in this glumine of hearing, establish a precedent as to how far a President's now in the future can go.
For that reason, Mr. President, pardon me for the—
Are you saying that Mr. Cohen has no objections?
May I say that I'm not finished with the Truman?
So for that reason, I have a great to advise my staff to go on a stand, to go on a stand myself,
so as not to put the Chair in the position of having to decide this question and drag his hearing over my—
Well, I would frankly advise the Chair if I may.
Let's do the longest Adam for a few, even though we may feel he's not in title for a few.
It's the only way we can get through with this in a hurry.
So the Chair say, first of all, that's up to this point, at least Mr. Adam,
who says, need to get to know him, exploring with his counsel and with our counsel.
Whether or not he desires to claim this presidential executive order,
and if the minister is concerned and believes, if the question has not been answered yet,
he might have Mr. Cohen with us.
Oh, the question is Mr. Chairman, I think the counsel cannot object to the question.
I think there's only one person, and plan for the three-pervilates.
For the Fifth Amendment, for the presidential privilege?
Now, for any of us, just a moment.
I mean, I think I'd like the senators to which comes and inferring that I'm claiming the Fifth Amendment in privilege,
because I'm not, and I'm not claiming any privilege on this memorandum.
This is an instruction from the President of the United States, and I consider myself found by him.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, we are today—I think it's very important that we follow the time-worn rule
that no one can exert a privilege except the wits of it.
I don't care whether it's a Fifth Amendment privilege, whether it's this new privilege,
who would have today or what if it?
Mr. Wolf cannot get out of service.
I understood that from the chair's state of this morning that he was not doing a rule of one last but let's go to some future times.
That's correct, but of course, the counsel has the right to advise his witness,
and he was controlling with him and trying to arrive at some determination.
Mr. Chairman, I hope that's part of my dream, why not just for me?
You tell me in what term or what words you use in your question.
Did you consult with that towards you?
I think the word was communicate first, and I'm calling it.
Did you communicate—that's not there any communication between?
I thought you used words in terms of what you consult with me.
I might work with you, but no, I don't.
I'm at the chairman. I just want—I don't know what's going to happen here, but I want to make my observations read.
I may not agree with the president's order. I may think it should not have been issued, but since it has been issued,
I don't think it's been sought with a person without communicating with them and vice versa.
I feel about it, and I would rather be all to read.
I don't believe the question would be proper, who's on the first presidential order.
Mr. Chairman, may I ask me how to get out to report a leased-knit-cone question?
First, Senator McCarthy, are you requesting Mr. Cone to withdraw his question?
No, Mr. Chairman. Very well, and I don't like to have that question read.
Mr. Pairo, I'll read your question, and I know what we're having to do.
I'll be going to the—really in the chair.
Mr. Jenkins, may I make myself very clear?
I think you have, sir.
I don't think we have.
I'll be hearing from Mr. Pairo.
Mr. Chairman, I have a question.
Mr. Carter, I'm equal.
And then, Senator, you took the position through opposition to the position taken to the chairman.
No, I did not. No, I did not.
Well, very well. I think that's—let's make this clear.
I take the position that the presidential order is completely improper,
that this committee is not bound by it, but that committee should order,
under ordinary circumstances, the witness to testify that there is no type of
system and privilege which is being exerted here.
However, as I advise you also, and as there,
the length of time consumed and doing well will be so great.
No. 1, get it the only way of enforcing it, will be the type to which it's for contempt,
such as the mean going to the phone committee to the Senate floor for a grand hearing.
It will take—I believe the chair expressed it very well this morning.
I'm sure that the chairman of this Congress to get to a final result.
So that means in order to get rid of this show, to get back to our work,
I have a dream that the fire science concerns any witness.
To once exert this privilege, even though I think it's improper,
and telling the people they get something to hide,
the fire's work is terrible for everything on the sound.
And I think that any—if there's any—there's any ruling here, Mr. Chairman,
I think we've got to go into this in detail.
I think we should merely let the witness exert the privilege
and recognize these exerting and witness no ruling whatsoever.
I don't think you have any disagreement among ourselves at all.
It will simply commit, Mr. Adam, to determine
after controlling with his counsel whether he feels he can answer this question or not.
Now, if we'll have the question read by the reporter, we will know exactly what is before it.
Will the reporter please read the question?
I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
The current question is written down here.
I'll be going to read today to Senator Manusattles.
Let's start over then, the noble.
My question to Mr. Adam is following this January 21st meeting with Mr. Adam,
were you in communication with any of the persons who attended that meeting
on this same subject at any subsequent time?
Mr. Chairman, very respectfully.
There I believe is the directive of the President of the United States.
It's 17 Mays.
We didn't hear the news from the stuffing that.
And what was pro-Hedithney from answering this question?
Mr. Chairman.
Second, I should like state's position.
I think both the Chairman and my fellow.
The question is not what was the communication between Mr. Adam and any members?
Of the executive or justice department who attended the meeting of January 21st?
His question is merely whether or not I have a later date.
There was a communication between Mr. Adam and any member present on January 21st.
It has been asserted here by the Secretary of the Army that the Army and the Army alone was responsible
both prior to and subsequent to January 21st,
by the preparation and the prosecution of these charges.
Patently, the inquiry not being presumed by Mr. Coln is looking into the question of whether or not Mr. Adam's or Mr. Stevens was advised or was influenced by any member
present on January 21st to prepare and pursue those charges.
Mr. Coln, is that correct?
Second, he is merely asking the question, a very simple question.
Did he had a later date subsequent to the 21st of January?
How did communication with any member present on January 21st?
I advise the Chairman and the Chairman agrees with me that it was a perfectly legal question.
And I reiterate that Mr. Coln pursues an MS for that communication law.
Are the conversations, are the context of a conversation,
was we would be the first time sure to have given Mr. Wells that it would be unpopular and violated of the President's agreement.
If I may, I think to send him a coffee point on that, why?
And I have a very strong point that there is nobody here who can rule on the admittability of the question.
It's all up to the witnesses to whether he will answer the question or not.
Now if he can answer the question about the communication, whether they were communication, that we all agree, he must answer.
If you next get to the point, I believe so, I have the right answer.
What were those communication?
What did they invite him to do?
And then, the witness is not objectionable, but I believe so.
The witness may then, under this directive, re-use the answer to the question on the ground and answer is precluded by the terms of the direct.
That's the way I am saying that, that might be wrong.
That's correct.
Well, I'm not going to inquiry.
I wonder if I could ask Mr. Wells as to his interpretation of the word, as used in the third paragraph of the President's letter to the Secretary of the Senate with reference to the word communication.
Is it his understanding that the word communications prevent the witness from asking a question, did you see so and so after January 21st?
Is that your...
Mr. Sanders, actually, the answer is in the affirmative.
If you see the directive, use the two words, that use the word conversations, that says they may not be disclosed, and then goes on and says communications, which is an even broader term.
But the broader term, so that I can only take the view that the President is candid that this should not even testify that there was a communication.
I would like to say to you, Senator, that I don't count myself the greatest constitutional lawyer in the world, and this is a question of some important.
I hate to differ with Mr. Deacon.
I happen to want this occasion.
This could be referred to as the Attorney General, and you would certainly have an opinion far more valuable than the two of the opinions.
But I cannot sit at this table and advise the witness that he could answer this question on my study and my understanding of the directness.
I have not seen that I could not be wrong. I have often been beautifully wrong.
But I think at the moment I am right, and I am a fact in accordance with my best judgment.
Mr. Chairman, and the Secretary of the Senate, the Army is suggesting with a provision in as much as the difference of opinions between counsel and the court.
The reason for the Army and our distinguished colleague, as he said at the Mark and Saw, I suggest that the matter be referred to the Attorney General, the provision is that we don't give seven days recess to get the answer.
Mr. Chairman, I am in the party.
Mr. Chairman, before that is done, I would like to ask if that suggests the might be followed.
I would like to ask Mr. Adams, have you had any meetings with anyone from the Attorney General Office since that meeting of the 21st?
Well, I would think that that was equally covered by this.
The Attorney General Office are in the executive branch, and I think my instruction, the instruction, the Miss Never-Anter, cover that equally, sir.
No, we have a rather unusual situation here than the panel. Maybe you could help us on.
I am curious to know, if you have the fact that Mr. Rogers has invited you to do in the first place, that the inception of these charges according to your foreign testimony, unless we know how many times we've been there.
Definitely, please don't interrupt. I guess so.
Why don't you make a good one at the time?
We get all the time on the world when 15 days.
How much?
In view of the fact that according to your testimony, Mr. Rogers advised you, you followed his advice.
The advice I had to do was calling off the hearing.
I think it's rather important for everyone concerned to know how many times you have consulted with Mr. Rogers,
since then, if any time. How many times you've consulted with Mr. Brown-El?
Father, as I have taken the position, they took him to 21st right up until today, because we refer to Mr. Rogers as Mr. Femmeing from the Jeff.
They questioned whether or not Mr. Adams can tell us about the conversations of Mr. Rogers.
We wanted one unusual situation.
May I say, Mr. Chairman, that we have this identical situation, I think, practically in back in 1924.
At that time, the Attorney General was signed as Vice-Mr. Coolidge to keep certain information from a congressional committee.
Mr. Coolidge stepped to position that the Attorney General was an interested party, and he asked the Attorney General to resign,
asked all the information to made public. Now, I'm not even remotely suggesting that Attorney General Brown-El resign.
I'd be very surprised to find that Brown-El himself and anything to do with this. I've got a lot of respect for him.
I think it's unfair to the Attorney General, unless we can get that information, and we can do know that Mr. Rogers, the deputy,
is the man who is acting upon these requests we've signed over, and if we follow Mr. Femmeing's suggestions and some to Mr. Rogers,
we question whether or not we can get the information about what Mr. Rogers' weight of this.
I just a little bit doubtful about how much weight we can place upon that very sympathetic answer, which we'll get.
Mr. Hammond, and then Madam White, the commission was only made in an effort to get the hearing deck predited. I withdraw this suggestion.
Yes, and then, Mr. Cohn, if the witness says he's going to stand on this presidential directive, then there's stand right there, satisfied the job.
The question is, if Senator Munnify might, and I can be just as long about this, anyone else here in probably am, but as I understand it, the question which I have now asked is
whether or not there were such communication without going into their details, is not covered by the presidential directive.
Mr. Adams must answer that question whether he wishes to assert the directive or not. If he refuses to, Mr. Chairman, I respectfully ask you to direct an answer to the question.
If then, I ask him for the substance of the communication, and Mr. Adams asserts the refusal, then that's not refusal to give the substance of the conversation or communication.
My feet proper, under the directive, and I could not ask you to direct an answer. That's the way I see it, Mr. Jenkins. I might be wrong, I don't know.
Mr. Chair, I'll say that his understanding of the directive conforms completely with that of the Council, Mr. Jenkins.
I'm sure we obtained that understanding right or wrong, as a result of that conversation with the Attorney General Brown Hill, at which time we discussed the various interpretations and that was made very clear, that they held, that there would have been no distortion, of any of the confidential, global information passing among the presidential's advice.
We did not understand at that time, that that would preclude stating whether or not meetings were held or conferences were held or communication was repressed, but it didn't preclude going into the content or their purpose or what was said.
Mr. Johnson, I have here placing a broader interpretation, on this, executive director, the one that the Council has, and the one that the Chair has, then of course you have a right to advise your witness in conformity with your own interpretation of the directive.
I may also suggest you submit the questions of the committee, I will agree with the Chair. Chair may have the majority, the chair may be involved in the committee, I have the questions submitted directly to the Attorney General.
Mr. Johnson, I am sure the members of this committee of C clearly advise you, there was an occasion within a week or two when I happened to see the Attorney General whom I know, and Mr. Rogers and the Pentagon, and they were conferring with someone in the Pentagon.
I happen to know they were not conferring about this matter, but they were conferring about something. Now if they saw Mr. Adams on that occasion, as they may have done for all I know, and he said, oh yes, I saw Mr. Brown, L and Mr. Rogers two weeks ago.
The inference would be that they were talking about this matter when they were certainly to my knowledge, I know they were not talking about this matter.
The Council is possible to give a very wrong impression here, the executive departments are constantly in touch with each other, they constantly must ask the Vice-Chair of the Attorney General.
I have said in my original question, I use the words, communication on this subject, if they talk about something totally unrelated, I have no interest in that.
There was a poll signing in a theatre, I am interested in how I find out that the importance behind this thing is who is in honor.
Mr. Chairman, I agree with my distinguished colleague, the senior senator from Arkansas.
If in any way one of the principal's fields that is submitting this to the Attorney General, it would be submitted or two people in his department to somebody who might be present at this particular question and we can rule now and get on with it.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, is further confidence with the witness?
I think he can make a statement that to what contact he has had, which is sought as part of the committee and the senator of Mr. Colm, I hope he hopes the witness will make her effort at least.
I think he can.
Would you allow one more moment of confidence, really?
Mr. Chairman, I have seen or talked to two or three of the people who were at that meeting subsequent to January 21st.
On no occasion did I discuss with them in a personal interview or by telephone or by any other form of communication, anything having to do with the bringing of these charges.
I'll seem to be a first right answer to the direct question, Mr. Colm, and we continue with other questions.
Did you discuss with them anything pertaining to any of the matters discussed on this controversy at the meeting of January 21st?
Objective, Mr. Chairman.
I won't have a go.
Mr. Jenkins?
Will you state that?
We state that question, Mr. Colm.
How do we have a redness of Jenkins?
I'm sorry.
Before you go, please do question.
I think so.
Did you discuss with them anything pertaining to any of the matters discussed on this controversy at the meeting of January 21st?
How that called for any discussion or conversation.
And here we go again.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Wilson has no look to the content and is this both?
Which both Mr. Jenkins and the Chair had ruled earlier.
Obviously, it was covered by the executive workers.
It's a different question from the President.
And was there a meeting?
Was there a time?